---
title: Reflection
tags:
- tag1
- tag2
---

## Top 10 Lessons Learned
1. **Get ahead early and stay ahead:** The greatest lesson we learned from this project was the importance of staying ahead. Throughout the semester, there were times when we let our team fall behind to the point where we were finishing assignments at 11:50 the night they were due. This was where 90% of the stress came from, and could have been avoided if we had stayed ahead of the game.
2. **Treat deadlines as if they are a week earlier than you expect:** There is a principle where the amount of time you are given to complete something is the exact amount of time it will take you to finish it, because you will leave it until you know you are out of time. From the assignments that got extended on the day they were due, we noticed that we were able to get things done by the new deadline. Truthfully, we spent the same amount of time we were given, but we started too late. If we treated the deadline as if it were earlier, we would start things sooner and get them done faster.
3. **Communicate with your teammates when something comes up:** At the beginning of the semester, one of our team members was not responding to messages. As it turns out, they had gone out of the country and did not let anyone else know. Had this been communicated, we could have worked around it rather than waiting for this member to respond, allowing our team to get a further head start in the beginning. 
4. **Use parts that are from the in class labs:** In our class, the serial communication lab used an SPI motor driver, which we were excited to use. However, no one was able to get the driver working, so our team decided to use a different one for the project. After a lot of difficulty, we gave up on that new driver and returned to the in class one. Because they had more experience with it, the professors and TAs were able to help us figure out how to get that driver working. Always opt for the thing that you have the most resources for.
5. **Stay open minded:** Once we decided to split the motor system between two PICs, we got very focused on trying to get the PICs to communicate over a second UART. We spent over a week working on that function to no avail. It wasn’t until one of the professors recommended using a logic gate instead that we finally got the PICs to communicate with each other. If you lock on to an idea, you often miss the easier solutions that could make everything work. 
6. **Play to everyone’s strengths:** If you have a team member who is really good at circuit design, listen to what they have to say about your PCB. If you have a team member who is really good at code, ask them for help with your software development. It is OK and expected to ask for help from your team. That is why you are in a team and not being asked to do all of this alone.
7. **Pick good teammates:** Teammate selection is important. It is always a good idea to select teammates you are able to work with. Some people will be better off working with others due to their work style, attitude, mindset, goals, ect. Teammates that you wish to work with should complement your work style and goals for the project. It is also a good idea to pair yourself with teammates that can take criticism. A teammate unwilling to listen, is not a teammate at all. Now sometimes, choosing a teammate is not a choice you can make but if it is, these are some things to think about. 
8. **Don’t let the stress get to you:** No matter how hard it is, you just need to keep swimming! This class can be difficult, but it is important to remember that you need to take things slow and one at a time. It is also important to get ahead on assignments and labs because this will reduce stress. A person can only control what they can do, so do what you can to the best of your abilities. 
9. **Model before you buy:** It is important to use the dev boards and through hole components provided at the beginning of classes to model your subsystem before committing to a PCB design. Almost everything you need to model your subsystem is already provided as part of the class, and setting this up before you design your PCB makes your PCB more reliable and easier to work with.
10. **Pay attention to package sizes:** An easy way to keep track of footprints is to organize them by package size instead of part number. This also ensures you know what size you need if something happens to your order. Check with the Peralta lab to see what they have in stock, so you can use those and save your budget for other expenses.

## Recommendations to Future Students
1. Even when you miss something and don’t get the credit for it, you still need to do it so you can understand how it works.
2. Click every link in the instructions and use the examples as templates.
3. Schedule your team meetings to be in person every week. Our team was much more productive when we were physically in the classroom than we were in Discord calls.
4. Maximize the amount of points you will get. This class takes a lot of time, and you need to prioritize the things that will actually contribute to your grade. 
5. Go to office hours, every office hour. Not only are there people there who will help you with the course work, but it’s a way to ensure that you are scheduling yourself enough time to get everything done.

## Version 2.0
In the next iteration of this project, we would dedicate more time building the housing for the final product. Our team was very focussed on getting all of the code to work, which paid off in a well functioning final project, but we should have delegated the building of the final housing to those who had finished their code sooner than the rest of the group. 
Additionally, there would be a redesign of the motor system, as it grew to cover 3 PCBs. These boards would be consolidated into one final board, eliminating the possibility of a fly wire coming loose and ruining the whole system. 
Furthermore, the final design should use less headers, as we do not expect the museum staff to need to wire any new components into the final product. The power selection headers should be replaced with the appropriate fuses to protect the systems from serges, which would be more important to the end users than the modularity that the headers granted. 
If possible, the whole project should be condensed into less PCBs to save on cost and space. This would also allow the 8 pin connections to be hard wired, eliminating the possibility of plugging the wires in wrong, or the connectors rotating or bending resulting in a short between the unregulated power and the UART data pins. As this redesign would be very extreme, it may need to wait for a version 3.0. At a minimum, the order of the headers should be changed to keep the UART pin as far from the unregulated power as possible. This will help to protect the microcontrollers from the higher voltage, increasing the longevity and stability of the product.
